---
title:  Selecting a Data Repository
permalink: /share/selecting-a-data-repository/
category: 
- share
- guide
css: red-circles
excerpt: Use this guide to help you find the best place to share your data. 
---


## What is a data repository?

Quick definition of what a data repository is. 

## Things to consider

Here are some tips on selecting a data repository for your research:

### Reputation 

Reputation: Is the repository a reputable source? Check to see if it is endorsed by a funding agency, scholarly journal, professional society or listed among the Registry of Research Data Repositories.

### Sustainability 

Sustainability: Is the repository funded for long-term use? 

### Visability

Visibility: Does the repository provide a unique and consistent identifier, such as a DOI or a citation, for your data? 

### Usability

User-friendly: Is the existing data easy for the user to find and download? 

### Features

DOIs, upload limits, licensing, author dashboard

### Formats 

Format: Is the data repository a good match for the type of data you have generated? <<suggestion: the question doesn't really help better understand format in this context/do you mean readability?>>

### Rights

Legal Considerations: Is there information about the terms of use for the data in the repository? Are your rights as a data depositor clearly stated? <<suggestion: condense into one question. Possibly: 'Are your rights clearly defined in the terms of use?'' OR bjust 'Is there information about the terms of use for the data in the repository?' >>

### Addtional Resources

For additional help selecting a data repository you can [email us](mailto:data@bu.edu) or review the following materials:

* 1
* 2
* 3

## OpenBU

OpenBU is the institutional repository for all creative and scholarly research outputs of Boston University. [BU Research Data](https://open.bu.edu/handle/2144/20284) is an archive collection in OpenBU for digital research data generated by Boston University faculty, researchers, students, alumni, and staff. OpenBU provides long-term digital preservation and open access to data. All data in the collection are curated to increase potential for access and are assigned a permanent links ([Handles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Handle_System)).

For help using [OpenBU, please contact us](mailto:open-help@bu.edu)!

Beyond BU, there are a number of data repositories to scholars but there are a few things to keep in mind when you deposit your data. 

## General Solutions 

5-10 lines about what a "general" repository is and why a general data repository might be a good solution (lots of users, stability, support model, indexed by search engines (double check)) and why they might not be a good idea (board audience, research community might use a specific repository, needle in haystack)

* Dryad - who sponsors it, 1 unique feature, 1 statistic (like user # or # of datasets)  
* Figshare
* Harvard Dataverse
* Zenodo 


## Subject Specific 

5-10 lines about Why a subject repository might be a good solution (high use by research community). Give a few examples like PubChem,  [National Database for Autism Research](https://ndar.nih.gov/), and * [Associatation of Religion Data Archives](http://www.thearda.com/).

Finding and listing all of the subject-specific repositories is best done by data directories. A few we recommend searching are: 

* [Re3data.org](http://www.re3data.org/): Add who sponsors it, number of repositories, and 1 or 2 features
* [OpenDoar](http://opendoar.org/): OpenDOAR is an authoritative directory of academic open access repositories. Add who sponsors it, number of repositories listed, and one or two features. 
* http://oad.simmons.edu/oadwiki/Disciplinary_repositories